---
layout: post
title: My first Medium article
description: Some thoughts on education
image: assets/images/medium.jpg
---

<p>Public speaking was always a terrifying, yet fascinating thought for me. So upon enrolling in a class that has a Ted Talk as the final examination, I knew it was going to be an exciting semester. With complete freedom on the topic, I slowly gravitated towards the one sphere I know I’m passionate about, education.</p>

<p>The past two years at UC Berkeley have led to some fundamental realizations on how influential education is in shaping everything about a person. Looking back, the Indian education system shaped the lives of my peers and I in so many ways by shaping our thought process and work ethic. For instance, we learned how to think logically, but rarely to think creatively; we learned to work hard when given tasks, but rarely to create and assign tasks ourselves. The influence of an education system on an individual’s life is, I believe, worth talking about.</p>
<p>Intrigued by these thoughts, I started researching the Indian education system, which led to a disturbing finding. This utilitarian educational system was designed in 1835 to raise a working population to support the Industrial Revolution happening at that time. This system, which was designed to suppress creativity, punishes mistakes, and subdue leadership, is still used to educate a country 1.3 billion people strong. And it’s not just India, but several other countries that have a similar education system in place. Raising awareness about the history of these outdated educational systems prevalent in so many developing countries is another idea worth talking about.</p>
<p>During a casual conversation about changing peoples’ perspective on novel technology, a comment struck a chord with me: “ you can only change a population’s perspective on anything by education”. This led to a thought provoking observation — changing a traditional educational system would mean changing the widespread mindset on education. Diving further in leads to a vicious cycle, to improve education one must change the established mindset on education which would require education to change. Another fascinating problem worth talking about.</p>
<p>Further research on these issues will undoubtedly lead to captivating stories, solutions and problems. But as the five minute time limit dawns on me, I strongly believe starting conversation on these ideas would be a meaningful way to utilize this opportunity.</p>